So the last few videos of this section we're going to be moving on from lay out and color and focusing
on text.
So let's get rid of all our styles and indeed our content so far.
And we're going to start by seeing how we can change the format or typeface of our text.
So let's start by adding a little bit of text.
I'm going to use the minimally boring.
This is some text.
But you can use something even more exciting than that if you like.
Now of course to style that probably the easiest way is to set up some styles for how the tags.
And before I do anything new and fancy I always like just to check that everything's kind of connected
up right.
So you might do something like font size 200 percent and then just have a look.
There we go.
So this CSSA is definitely connecting to this content.
So even if I have a problem with my font changing CSSA I know that it's not down to an issue that I've
spelt style like that or something like that.
So that's a good trick.
I always use before doing something new.
So changing the font with CSSA is pretty straightforward.
We use the property font family.
Now the challenge with farm family is that you have to remember what the font families are.
Now fortunately my text as it has given me a few that I can work with.
So let's go for fantasy to get something that hopefully will look completely different to plain old
text.
And there we go.
You can see this is definitely a different sort of font than what we would have got without it.
So now we've changed the font but how do we know what fonts are available other than the ones that happened
to appear in the dropdown list.
Well I would do a quick google of web safe fonts and then the top result for me is this W3 schools dot
com link which is perfect.
And then this will give you a list of the fonts that are pretty safe to use.
That means they're supported by most browsers.
So we've got Georgia here.
Palatino linotype Times New Roman and Sunseri if that means without little ticks.
So aerial aerial black comics and et cetera and a couple of monospace fonts as well in which all of
the characters have the same width.
They're particularly good.
If you want to display code on your website so you can try some of those out.
Let's just pop them one.
We'll try Aeriel just because it looks different once again them what we have say Ariel
we go let's refresh there again.
So that's what Ariel looks like now you know to stay that quiet.
Most of these in fact have not just one but they have several different ones.
Most have three times new roman times and Sarath.
Now this is actually a really nice feature of CSSA fonts and it's known as fallback.
So if the Times New Roman font is available on the system of whoever's looking at your web site then
it will display the text with times new roman font.
If not it'll fall back to the Times font and if it doesn't have that it'll fall back to the standard
Sarath font whatever that is on the machine of your user.
So if you're going to change fonts it's always a good idea to have several different ones so that you
can be sure that you're getting something that looks close to the font that you really want.
Even if they haven't got the perfect font already on their system so you should always have several
different font families but increasingly more general as you go across the comments like that.
So that's pretty much it when it comes to web syphons.
You'll notice that there's not a huge number of these.
And if you're really picky about what you want your website to look like it might not be one there that's
close enough to vision that you have in mind.
So I'm going to show you as well how to use Google fonts which is a huge range of free to use fonts
you can find just by googling Google fonts and then click on the top result should take you to Fahnestock
Google dot com and Google fonts looks like this.
So it's really well organized.
You can see how all the fonts look and you can use categories on the left to identify particular types
of font that you're interested in.
And then you can use any one you like in your web pages.
So there's a particular one that I like so I'm going to choose the search option and then search for
Shadow and the shadows into light from just the one I'm going to use.
I think it's very nice but the process of getting it onto your web page is exactly the same regardless
of which font you want.
So first off just click the plus button and you'll get this little box appear at the bottom saying one
family selected you can select more than one if you want but I'll just keep to the one and then you
can see we've got this embed font section here.
So all we need to do is copy that code.
We'll explain what it means in a minute and then we get back to our
HMO page and then you can paste this in anywhere in the head section will actually work anywhere in
the document.
But normally we put our fonts and other styles in the head section so you can see what this is doing
is essentially bringing in a style sheet that is some C S S and it's getting it from this you are real
here Fahnestock Google API or come see us.
And then you can see we've got what's known as a query string that is a question mark and then family
and then the name of our font family there.
So that will bring in the font code to our page.
But how do we actually use it or to use it.
We go back to Google page and then you can see here they specify in CSSA we've got the CSSA code that
we need to bring that into our page.
So just select that control say or command say and then we just replace our font family fantasy which
is what we had before to that code our font family is now going to be chosen to light and cursive so
so that your back over to our Web page.
And when you refresh it you can see we've now got that very nice font.
Excellent.
So you can now add any font you like.
Feel free to experiment a little and try out some different phones from Google phones or elsewhere.
But for now we're going to move straight on to customizing text in more detail with a styling text in
the next video.